---
layout: post
title:  Generative Art - Matt Pearson
date:   2020-03-28
description: Pills from Generative Art by Matt Pearson
---


<blockquote>
From the standpoint of Taoist philosophy natural forms are not made but grown, and there is a radical difference between the organic and the mechanical.
Things which are made, such as houses, furniture, and machines, are an assemblage of parts put together, or shaped, like sculpture, from the outside inwards.
But things which grow shape themselves from within outwards—they are not assemblages of originally distinct parts; they partition themselves, elaborating their own structure from the whole to the parts, from the simple to the complex.
-Alan Watts
</blockquote>

What is *Generative Art* (GenArt)? 

In brief it's about **creating the organic using the mechanical** and having some fun playing on the border of the two. Coding for example, can be seen just as a really powerful tool but that doesn't belong to the informatic community, why not to use it then to generate something autonomous and unpredictable? why not to use it to generate *art*?


We are not just talking about visual art and coding..some good examples come also from music! Some cool examples are John Cage's note-less 4'33", Brian Eno's "Discreet Music LP" and Mozart's *Musikalisches Würfelspiel* in which we make use of dice to assemble in more than 7000 different ways the music partiture.

<blockquote>
The machine makes the music, but I created the machine…
I don’t know where responsibility lies in that situation.
—Sean Booth
</blockquote>


